Fotowall
========

Fotowall is a creative tool that allows you to layout your photos or pictures
in a personal way. You can add pictures, then resize, move, change colors, text,
shadows, etc..
Check out the [home page](http://www.enricoros.com/opensource/fotowall) and the
[blog](http://www.enricoros.com/blog/tag/fotowall/) too.
*Focus is on simplicity, express your creativity! ;-)*

ChangeLog
---------

Unreleased 0.9.x:

Work in progress:

* Selection
* FotowallFile
* Arnaud's Undo/Redo system
* support for name (autogenerated) in Canvas, filename will reflect the canvas name
* Breadcrumb bar navigation
* modeinfo-per-scene, real resizing of scenes based on modeinfo, support for larger scenes
  * zooming?
* (Work In Progress) More properties in the top bar
* (Work In Progress) Arrange Contents
* remove RenderContent
* WordCloud editor

Done:

* Perspective Property editor
* Google Images search (by Marco Bavagnoli)
* New Content: WordCloud
* New Content: Fotowall
* Scrollable Canvas
  * perfectly handles the Exact Size mode
* Save on exit
* Fixed licensing
* LikeBack feedback system
* Export to SVG
* Massive code cleanup and refactor

Version 0.8.0 (2009-09-12):

* Bezier Shaped Text
* Pictures: Crop and change Opacity
* Context-sensitive Top-Bar
* Window Transparency
* OpenGL Acceleration
* Added many User Requested Features
  * add ok button for finalizing the text and just close the tab with X (req. by Rossana)
  * network image loading from http (req. by Rossana)
  * pictures on background: keep ratio in some way (req. by Rossana)
  * same folder when you open the picture (req. by Rossana)
  * Video -> Webcam (req. by Rossana)
  * FotoWall -> Fotowall (req. by Rossana)
* Merged external Contributions
 * fixes from Georges Dubus (intro overflow and translation) and Andreas Brech (bad accelereators, scale with all corners)
* Other changes
  * restore the common behavior for rotating (left click)
  * animations with 4.6: top bar, item show/hide, properties show/hide
  * builds with 4.4 (without many features), 4.5 (without animations), 4.6
  * fix: left alignment of some items
  * fix: resizing works only with the bottom right corner. fix the others.

Version 0.7.1 (2009-07-23):

* Flickr content download
* Qt 4.6 GFX cuteness and network speed (4.6 highly recommended)
* Rubberband selection of items
* Prettified properties dialogs
* Better load/save (even of network objects)
* Load additional frames + 1 new frame (by Arnaud Tanguy)
* German translation (by Martin Zimmermann)
* Check for updates
* Fixed many bugs

Version 0.6 (2009-04-29):

* PosteRazor Integration
* Live Video (Linux only, requires a WebCam)
* Export Wizard (Wallpaper, Image, PosteRazor, Print)
* XML file format (will ensure compatibility from now on)
* Multi-items selection (to move, delete, set properties, ...)
* All-in-one Scale+Rotate button (different with LMB/RMB and Shift/Ctrl)
* Perspective Transform
* Fixed Size mode
* Sepia Effect
* Scale Text like Images

Version 0.5 (2009-04-11):

* CD/DVD Cover composition and printing (by Arnaud Tanguy)
* Rich Text (with extended editing)
* Glow effect (by Arnaud Tanguy)
* Properties configurable for all objects [reqby Ilan d'Inca]
* Usability fixes [reqby Ilan d'Inca]
* Save to all the supported image formats (by Arnaud Tanguy)
* Properties close button [reqby Ilan d'Inca]
* Improved stacking (fixes + relative to neighbourhoods) [reqby Ilan d'Inca]
* Add the 'No effect' effect removal option (by Arnaud Tanguy)
* French Introduction translation (by Arnaud Tanguy)
* Translation of the Introduction text (by Arnaud Tanguy)
* Fall back to QTextDocument where QtWebkit is not available

Version 0.4 (2009-03-29):

* Windows executable on [github](http://github.com/enricoros/Fotowall/downloads)
* Image Effects (by Arnaud Tanguy)
* French Translation (by Arnaud Tanguy)
* German translation [Martin]
* Apply properties to All

Version 0.3.1 (2009-03-13):

* builds with Qt 4.4
* Brazilian translation [Marcio Moraes]
* Configuration Panel: right click on an image and edit properties
* More Frame types (default, heart, Plasma backgrounds) [David Eccher]
* More Image Formats (bmp, tiff, gif, ...) [Superstoned]
* Reflections, and really cool ones
* Mirror the photo by clicking on an axis [Alberto Scarpa]
* DoubleClick on a picture -> set it as background, and vice-versa [Alberto Scarpa]
* More pretty (plasma icons) and usable (behavior) frame buttons
* Stacking order [Superstoned]
* Export a single picture as-you-see-it on disk
* Fixed-ratio resize: hold CTRL while resizing
* Visual Help [Alberto Scarpa]
* Drag&Drop: better behavior and can change a picture inside an existing frame too
* Pictures stay on-screen


Sharing Ideas
-------------

I hope to expand the program as soon as I can, since there is many room for
improvement and the code is kept clean and small.

- You can join the development.. the whole stuff is done with Qt 4.5 or higher
  using the GraphicsView framework.
- And if you have any Idea or Suggestion, just drop me a line, on the project
  homepage or by mail at  enrico.ros@gmail.com ;-)

### Current Wishlist
* transform pictures with a 'magneto tool' (good on grids)
* handle initial load-save after being shown. also evaluate normalized rescaling.
* save/restore background transparency/ratio state (or check current bg code)
* svg drawings [balloons, signs, etc..]
* masked pic
* both new and old resize&co
* webcam: on win32
* webcam: multiple webcams
* add the undo/redo support
* provide some default files, also loadable with a short path
  * use a fotowall scene as gui (4 squared load/save/welcome/etc..)
  * scene-in-scene for 'recent files'
  * embedded examples (inside/network)
* duplicate/clone content
* real cropping
* scissors tool
  * real shaping, intersects frame shape
* scene matrix (global perspective)
* templates
  * the template system could even be some auto-generated fotowall file with changing urls.
* integrate with a gimp-like library for effects/graphics ops
* new graphics effects (like Colorize or Warhol-ize ;-)
  * mosaic effect: from 1 picture to a grid of misaligned pics
* update the video tutorial (still at 0.2!)
* add the "color changing stuff" to the picture themselves (req. by Contrast, Superstoned)
* add google images, like flickr ones (req. by Rossana)
* win: photo dragging from the 'add picture' filedialog (seems harder that it should be. works on linux) (req. by Rossana)
* auto-placement [force field, shape, collage, etc..]
  * ap: perform rectangular image composition based on an input picture (color, pattern)
  * ap: perform image distribution based on shapes or probability sampling (on a sprayed grayscale canvas)
* blend images in one another (reqby Ruud)
* 3d text
  * global illumitation/shading for shadows, frames, 3d text
* Google-suggest completion (already in, but misplaced when embedded into qgraphicsview)
* integrate kde-apps knowledgebase (already in, but doesn't work great)
* regional links to web resources
 - italian: http://www.dylanblog.com/2009/05/27/creare-dei-wallpaper-personalizzati-con-fotowall-061/
 - french: ubuntu-fr ?
* missing relicences
 - 3rdparty/richtextedit/richtexteditor*: redo 'cause non free


Building
--------

This Fotowall package provides source code; to make an executable out of the
sources you have to know a little about programming or ask one of your friends
to do it ;-) Or just grab an 'executable package' from the project homepage.

In Linux/X11, Mac, or Windows, install the latest Qt development packages that
you will find on http://www.trolltech.com:

- on linux this is tested with Qt 4.4/4.5/4.6-git and GCC 4.0+
- on windows this is tested witn Qt 4.5.2+ and MSVC Express 2005 and 2008
- on mac it is tested with Qt 4.5+

Just open a command prompt (win), shell (linux, mac) and go the sources
location and issue the followings commands:

- qmake  (or qmake-qt4 if your system is weird)
- make   (or nmake, if you're on windows)

The executable will be built and you can start enjoying Fotowall! ;-)

Internal: To prepare the folder for release: make distclean; git clean -fdx; rm -fr Makefile data/sources .build .git .gitignore translations/.gitignore examples; qmake; rm -fr Makefile .build
Internal: Check dependancies: find *.h -maxdepth 1 -exec grep -irH {} ../items/* \;

Old News
--------

**2009-03-02** Fotowall is now on GitHub. Development will continue here. Changes are coming soon!

**2008-09-03** Peter Upfold put together a great ScreenCast of the application!!

See http://fosswire.com/2008/09/03/Fotowall-make-wallpaper-collages-from-your-photos/ fot the article and click on the Video link to see the screencast.

**2008-08-01** Thanks to everybody that is sending me patches!

I really appreciate that, even if I don't have time right now to check and apply them.. but I'm willing to give everybody the SVN access, so drop me a note if you want to contribute!

**2008-04-14** Updated this page including the Wishlist

**2008-04-06** Fotowall 0.21 released

Changes in this release are: relicensing and a new program icon

**2008-04-06** Imported the project into Google Code
